release: 2.64 (#14183)
snapcore/snapd: NEWS.md

# New in snapd 2.64:
* Support building snapd using base Core22 (Snapcraft 8.x)
* FIPS: support building FIPS complaint snapd variant that switches to FIPS mode when the system boots with FIPS enabled
* AppArmor: update to AppArmor 4.0.1
* AppArmor: support AppArmor snippet priorities
* AppArmor prompting: add path pattern matching

> * AppArmor prompting: support constraints and abstract permissions

Reviewer: The most important (user-facing) changes are these:
* AppArmor prompting: add checks for prompting support, include support/flag enablement in system key, and restart snapd if prompting flag changes
* AppArmor prompting: include prompt prefix in AppArmor rules if prompting is supported and enabled

The full set of AppArmor prompting-related changes could also include:
* AppArmor prompting: add common types, constraints, and mappings from AppArmor permissions to abstract permissions
* AppArmor prompting: add path pattern parsing and matching

But the first two are the most important, and should replace what's currently listed if you're tight on space.

Author: thanks

Author: fixed

* Registry views (experimental): rename from aspects to registries
* Registry views (experimental): support reading registry views using snapctl
* Registry views (experimental): restrict view paths from using a number as first character and view names to storage path style patterns
* Snap components: support installing snaps and components from files at the same time (no REST API/CLI)
* Snap components: support downloading components related assertions from the store
* Snap components: support installing components from the store (no REST API/CLI)
* Snap components: support removing components (REST API, no CLI)
* Snap components: started support for component hooks

> * Kernel modules as components: support kernel modules as components

Reviewer 2: Notes for components looks good to me :+1:

* Refresh app awareness (experimental): add data field for /v2/changes REST API to allow associating each task with affected snaps 
* Refresh app awareness (experimental): use the app name from .desktop file in notifications
* Allow re-exec when SNAP_REEXEC is set for unlisted distros to simplify testing
* Generate GNU build ID for Go binaries
* Add missing etelpmoc.sh for shell completion
* Do not attempt to run snapd on classic when re-exec is disabled
* Packaging/build maintenance for Debian sid, Fedora, Arch, openSuse
* Add snap debug api command to enable running raw queries
* Enable snap-confine snap mount directory detection
* Replace global seccomp filter with deny rules in standard seccomp template
* Remove support for Ubuntu Core Launcher (superseded by snap-confine)
* Support creating pending serial bound users after serial assertion becomes available
* Support disabling cloud-init using kernel command-line

> * Split refresh into essential and non-essential snaps to speed up and minimise snapd restarts

Reviewer 3: This is true but makes more sense for us internally. Maybe this is more understandable for other people:
```suggestion
* In hybrid systems, apps can refresh without waiting for restarts required by essential snaps
```
It omits many caveats but I think it's more appropriate. wdyt?

Reviewer 2: +1 for this reading better for people who are not snapd devs

Author: It was an attempt to combine all of the below which all seems related to split refresh. Perhaps we need more than one entry to represent it?

<google-sheets-html-origin><!--td {border: 1px solid #cccccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
14052 | https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/14052 | o/snapstate: refactor/optimise dependency setup in split refresh
-- | -- | --
14039 | https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/14039 | o/snapstate: enable split refresh for auto-refresh
13991 | https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/13991 | o/snapstate: don't wait for def provider if it depends on base in split refresh
13955 | https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/13955 | o/snapstate: in hybrid systems re-refresh before reboot if possible
13852 | https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/13852 | o/snapstate: don't make apps wait for reboot on classic w/ kernel

Author: fixed

# New in snapd 2.64:
* Support building snapd using base Core22 (Snapcraft 8.x)
* FIPS: support building FIPS complaint snapd variant that switches to FIPS mode when the system boots with FIPS enabled
* AppArmor: update to AppArmor 4.0.1
* AppArmor: support AppArmor snippet priorities

> * AppArmor prompting: add checks for prompting support, include support/flag enablement in system key, and restart snapd if prompting flag changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AppArmor prompting: add checks for prompting support, include prompting status in system key, and restart snapd if prompting flag changes
```

Author: fixed

* AppArmor prompting: include prompt prefix in AppArmor rules if prompting is supported and enabled
* AppArmor prompting: add common types, constraints, and mappings from AppArmor permissions to abstract permissions
* AppArmor prompting: add path pattern parsing and matching
* Registry views (experimental): rename from aspects to registries
* Registry views (experimental): support reading registry views using snapctl
* Registry views (experimental): restrict view paths from using a number as first character and view names to storage path style patterns
* Snap components: support installing snaps and components from files at the same time (no REST API/CLI)
* Snap components: support downloading components related assertions from the store
* Snap components: support installing components from the store (no REST API/CLI)
* Snap components: support removing components (REST API, no CLI)
* Snap components: started support for component hooks

> * Kernel modules as components: support kernel modules as components

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Snap components: support kernel modules as components
```

Author: Thanks, will change on next iteration.

Author: fixed

* Refresh app awareness (experimental): add data field for /v2/changes REST API to allow associating each task with affected snaps
* Refresh app awareness (experimental): use the app name from .desktop file in notifications
* Allow re-exec when SNAP_REEXEC is set for unlisted distros to simplify testing
* Generate GNU build ID for Go binaries
* Add missing etelpmoc.sh for shell completion
* Do not attempt to run snapd on classic when re-exec is disabled
* Packaging/build maintenance for Debian sid, Fedora, Arch, openSuse
* Add snap debug api command to enable running raw queries
* Enable snap-confine snap mount directory detection
* Replace global seccomp filter with deny rules in standard seccomp template
* Remove support for Ubuntu Core Launcher (superseded by snap-confine)
* Support creating pending serial bound users after serial assertion becomes available
* Support disabling cloud-init using kernel command-line
* In hybrid systems, apps can refresh without waiting for restarts required by essential snaps
* Ship snap-debug-info.sh script used for system diagnostics

> * Add refresh-observe access to /v2/snaps/{name} REST API

Reviewer 4: I believe this belongs to RAA and should be grouped with the RAA entries above, also the wording can be improved a little for clarity.

```suggestion
* Refresh app awareness (experimental): give snap-refresh-observe interface access to /v2/snaps/{name} REST API
```

Author: Thanks, will change on next iteration.

Author: fixed

> * Refresh app awareness (experimental): give snap-refresh-observe interface access to /v2/snaps/{name} REST API

Reviewer 4: Tiny nitpick, but this could be moved up to line 21 to be grouped with similar entries

```suggestion
* Refresh app awareness (experimental): give snap-refresh-observe interface access to /v2/snaps/{name} endpoint
```

Author: thanks! fixed and added to group

* Improve error messages when attempting to run non-existent snap
* Switch to -u UID:GID for strace-static
* Support enabling snapd logging with snap set system debug.snapd.{log,log-level}
* Fix potential unexpected auto-refresh of snap on managed schedule
* Fix potential segfault by guarding against kernel command-line changes on classic system
* Fix proxy entries in /etc/environment with missing newline that caused later manual entries to not be usable
* Fix offline remodelling by ignoring prerequisites that will otherwise be downloaded from store
* Fix devmode seccomp deny regression that caused spamming the log instead of actual denies

> * Fix snap state lock leak during refresh unlink

Reviewer 4: This fix was for the snap lock leaking not the snap state lock, https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/14044
```suggestion
* Fix snap lock leak during refresh
```

Author: Thanks, will change on next iteration.

Author: fixed

* Fix not re-pinning validation sets that were already pinned when enforcing new validation sets
* Fix handling of unexpected snapd runtime failure
* Fix /v2/notices REST API skipping notices with duplicate timestamps
* Fix comparing systemd versions that may contain pre-release suffixes
* Fix udev potentially starting before snap-device-helper is made available
* Fix race in snap seed metadata loading
* Fix treating cloud-init exit status 2 as error

> * Fix to prevent sending refresh complete notification if snap refresh-observe is connected

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Fix to prevent sending refresh complete notification if snap snap-refresh-observe interface is connected
```

Reviewer 4: This one also belongs to RAA, but It is more of a fix so I guess it makes sense to be placed here.

Author: Thanks, will change on next iteration.

Author: fixed

> * Fix to queue default-configure service commands run after the hook to ensure it gets up-to-date config values

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Fix to queue snapctl service commands if run from the default-configure hook to ensure they get up-to-date config values
```

Author: Thanks, will change on next iteration.

Author: fixed
